building with lotus API (#1190)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: docs/build/hosted-lotus-node.md

---
title: Hosted Lotus Node
description: As the fundamental component of Filecoin Network, lotus node offers abundant features to developers via command-line as well as RPC API methods. 
breadcrumb: 'Lotus Node'
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

{{ $frontmatter.description }} 

In the Filecoin ecosystem, there are various node solutions to connect to the Filecoin network and provide  functions via RPC API calls. Developers can either install and run their own lotus node locally to interact with the Filecoin network, or connect to other lotus nodes hosted by Glif or Infura.

Developers can also use the API client libraries to utilize the features of Filecoin Network since those libraries take care of the low-level logic of connecting to lotus node, requesting and handing the response via simple calls, etc. Currently, there are many libraries available:

> + [filecoin.js](https://filecoin-shipyard.github.io/filecoin.js/)
> + [filecoin-js-signer](https://github.com/blitslabs/filecoin-js-signer)
> + [Filecoin Signing Tools](https://github.com/Zondax/filecoin-signing-tools)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [filecoin.js](https://filecoin-shipyard.github.io/filecoin.js/)
- [filecoin-js-signer](https://github.com/blitslabs/filecoin-js-signer)
- [Filecoin Signing Tools](https://github.com/Zondax/filecoin-signing-tools)
```

Use dashes `-` for list items.

> In this tutorial, we will run a  **local lotus node** and use **filecoin.js** library to build examples to walk you through: 

Reviewer: Bolding should be reserved for when the user/reader has to look for something, or click on something. https://docs.filecoin.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#bold-text

- Setting up local lotus node for Calibration TestNet
- Using filecon.js to write code to interact with Filecoin Network to
   - query basic blockchain info
   - manage lotus wallet
   - manage light wallet
   - make a storage deal

> ## **Pre-requirements**

Reviewer: Don't bold headers. https://docs.filecoin.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#titles

Before getting started, you should be familiar with:

+ [How Filecoin works](http://localhost:8080/about-filecoin/how-filecoin-works/)
+ [How to install a lotus node for the Calibration network](https://lotu.sh/lotus/install/prerequisites/#supported-platforms)
+ [How to use Lotus command line](https://lotu.sh/lotus/manage/lotus-cli/)

Also, make sure you have all the dependencies installed:

+ Fully Synced Calibration TestNet lotus node
+ node.js

> + npm

Reviewer: This should go under a **Prerequisites** section.

## Setup

Before you start writing code to interact with hosted lotus node, you should make sure everything is set up properly. Especially ensure you have a local lotus node fully synced for Calibration TestNet. 

### Set up lotus node

If you have not installed a lotus node locally and fully synced for Calibration TestNet, you should go back and do it following the guild to [Install and launch a Lotus node](https://lotus.filecoin.io/docs/set-up/install/).

To sum up, you need to:

> 1. **Download lotus source code for the latest release**

Reviewer: Don't bold list items. https://docs.filecoin.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#bold-text

   cd lotus/
   git checkout <vX.X.X> # tag for a release, currently v1.15.0
   ```

2. **Build and install lotus for Calibnet**

   ```shell
   make clean calibnet # Calibration with min 32GiB sectors
   sudo make install
   ```

3. **Fast sync using latest snapshot** (still need several hours to fully sync the chain)

   ```shell
   lotus daemon --import-snapshot <path-to-calibration-snapshot>
   ```

4. **[Create a wallet](https://lotu.sh/lotus/manage/manage-fil/#creating-a-wallet) and request some TestNet FIL from [Faucet](https://faucet.calibration.fildev.network/)**

4. **[Enable remote API access to your lotus node](https://lotu.sh/developers/api-access/)**

If everything set up correctly, you should be able to check the status of your local node and wallet balance.

```shell with-output
#Check if the node sync to the highest tipset
lotus sync wait
```

```
Worker: 10161; Base: 778820; Target: 778820 (diff: 0)
State: complete; Current Epoch: 778820; Todo: 0

Done!
```

```shell with-output
#Check wallet balance
lotus wallet list 
```

```
Address                                    Balance        Nonce  
t154xvuihhicgluafwmohwzwmtmqp44pwwgewyvma  100 FIL          0

> ```

Reviewer: Add these as individual steps that the user should follow through:

```
1. To make sure that everything is working correctly, check the status of your local node: [...]
1. Check your wallet balance: [...]
```

   ```

3. **Test a simple function call**

   At this step, you are ready to write code to connect to your lotus node and interact with the lotus APIs. Let's write a simple script to query the lotus version to verify if everything works as expected.

   First, let's create a `chainDataQuery.mjs` file in your project and add the following codes. We use `mjs` so we can use import statement in our code. 

   ```javascript
   //1. Import necessary packages
   import { HttpJsonRpcConnector, LotusClient } from "filecoin.js";
   
   //2. Use the local node URL to create a connection to your lotus node
   const localNodeUrl = "http://127.0.0.1:1234/rpc/v0";
   const localConnector = new HttpJsonRpcConnector({ url: localNodeUrl });
   
   //3. lotusClient exposes all lotus APIs
   const lotusClient = new LotusClient(localConnector);
   const version = await lotusClient.common.version();
   console.log(version);
   ```

   Run the following command in your project directory to test it.

   ```shell with-output
   ~/build-with-lotus $ node basicQuery.mjs
   ```

   ```shell
   {
     Version: '1.15.0+calibnet+git.0ac1bbc7a',
     APIVersion: 66816,
     BlockDelay: 30
   }
   ```

>    If everything is set up correctly, our code will be able to connect to the lotus node and request chain data back as shown above. And we are ready to explore more features that the lotus provides via API calls. 

Reviewer: Make this a subsection of **Create a node.js project**:

```
#### Test a simple function call

At this step, you are ready to write code to connect to your lotus node and interact with the lotus APIs. Let's write a simple script to query the lotus version to verify if everything works as expected.

1. First, let's create a `chainDataQuery.mjs` file in your project and add the following codes. We use `mjs` so we can use import statement in our code:

...
```

## Query chain data

Blockchain data is the fundamental part of any blockchain network, it is essential that lotus provides APIs to query Filecoin chain data, including tipSets,  blocks, and messages, network status, storage deals and storage provider's details, etc. 

As one of the API client libraries, filecion.js wrapped all the lotus APIs into simple method calls to provide  a complete library to interact with any lotus node. Let's look at some common packages of LotusClient so you can have a sense of what you can use. 

+ **LotusClient.common** - methods to get node info.
+ **LotusClient.chain** -  methods to interact with the blockchain.
+ **LotusClient.wallet** - methods to manage wallet on the lotus node.
+ **LotusClient.client** - methods to interact with the storage and retrieval markets as a client.
+ **LotusClient.paych** - methods to interact with and manage payment channels.
+ **LotusClient.state** - methods to query, inspect, and interact with chain state.

> + more ...

Reviewer: If these are variables of methods, they should be between code tags:

```
`LotusClient.common`
```

https://docs.filecoin.io/community/contribute/grammar-formatting-and-style/#inline-code-tags

4. [Enable remote API access to your Lotus node](https://lotu.sh/developers/api-access/)

If everything set up correctly, you should be able to verify to:

- make sure that everything is working correctly, check the status of your local node:

  ```shell with-output
  #Check if the node sync to the highest tipset
  lotus sync wait
  ```

  ```shell
  Worker: 10161; Base: 778820; Target: 778820 (diff: 0)
  State: complete; Current Epoch: 778820; Todo: 0
  
  Done!
  ```

- Check your wallet balance

  ```shell with-output
  #Check wallet balance
  lotus wallet list 
  ```

  ```shell
  Address                                    Balance        Nonce  
  t154xvuihhicgluafwmohwzwmtmqp44pwwgewyvma  100 FIL          0
  ```

### Create a node.js project

Let's also set up a Node.js project with necessary dependencies, we will write basic javascript functions to focus more on learning the code to interact with Filecoin Network. 

1. Create a new node.js project

   ```shell
   mkdir build-with-lotus && cd build-with-lotus
   npm init #Initialize an project
   ```
   
2. Install the fielcoin.js library

   ```shell
   npm install filecoin.js
   ```

### Test a simple function call

> At this step, you are ready to write code to connect to your Lotus node and interact with the Lotus APIs. Let's write a simple script to query the Lotus version to verify if everything works as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you're ready to write code to connect to your Lotus node and interact with the Lotus APIs. Let's write a simple script to query the Lotus version to verify if everything works as expected.
```

1. Let's create a `chainDataQuery.mjs` file in your project and add the following codes. We use `mjs` so we can use import statement in our code. 

    ```javascript
    //1. Import necessary packages
    import { HttpJsonRpcConnector, LotusClient } from "filecoin.js";

    //2. Use the local node URL to create a connection to your Lotus node
    const localNodeUrl = "http://127.0.0.1:1234/rpc/v0";
    const localConnector = new HttpJsonRpcConnector({ url: localNodeUrl });

    //3. lotusClient exposes all Lotus APIs
    const lotusClient = new LotusClient(localConnector);
    const version = await lotusClient.common.version();
    console.log(version);
    ```

> 2. Run the following command in your project directory to test it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command in your project directory:
```

    ```shell with-output
    ~/build-with-lotus $ node basicQuery.mjs
    ```

    ```shell
    {
      Version: '1.15.0+calibnet+git.0ac1bbc7a',
      APIVersion: 66816,
      BlockDelay: 30
    }
    ```

> If everything is set up correctly, our code will be able to connect to the Lotus node and request chain data back as shown above. And we are ready to explore more features that the Lotus provides via API calls. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything is set up correctly, your code will be able to connect to the Lotus node and return the chain data as shown above. Now, you're ready to explore more API features.
```

## Query chain data

Blockchain data is the fundamental part of any blockchain network, it is essential that Lotus provides APIs to query Filecoin chain data, including tipSets,  blocks, and messages, network status, storage deals and storage provider's details, etc. 

As one of the API client libraries, filecion.js wrapped all the Lotus APIs into simple method calls to provide  a complete library to interact with any Lotus node. Let's look at some common packages of LotusClient so you can have a sense of what you can use. 

> - `LotusClient.common` - methods to get node info.

Reviewer 2: remove all the periods at the end of lines 165-171 (in lists, skip the periods if it's not a complete sentence)

> - `LotusClient.chain` -  methods to interact with the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `LotusClient.chain` - methods to interact with the blockchain.
```
remove extra space
